Hello everyone and welcome to the spark and Python with virtual box installation lecture this lecture
will walk through how to download and set up virtual box with Ubuntu.
Then we will walk through installing Sparc and Python as well as the Jupiter notebook system on this
virtual box aboon to the resources for this lecture has a link to a written form and these instructions
that you can reference in case you want to just copy and paste anything we do here.
OK.
So the first thing need to do is actually download virtual box and a Bluetooth.
Let's hop over to the browser and show you how you can find these
OK.
The first thing you need to download is Virtual Box virtual box is basically going to like you to have
a virtual computer on your own physical computer and this virtual computer is where we're going to be
downloading Ubuntu if you're running already on an beento or Linux system you can basically just skip
ahead until we actually start downloading SPARC in Python.
On this virtual box but for Windows users and Mac users Let's show you how you can get a virtual box
first you just come over here to downloads and this will take you to the downloads page and we're just
that virtual box.
Org slash wiki slash downloads or you can just Google virtual box download and you'll see these download
options.
So there's options for Windows host and OSX hosts as well as Linux distributions.
But if you're on Linux you know you can just do it on your actual system not on a virtual box.
And then just click on Windows hosts affair on Windows and or download an executable file already have
it.
I'm going to cancel this.
And if you're on OSX you click on that and this will download a dmg file.
So either way once that's done downloading and it canceled that one as well you just double click it.
Follow the instructions.
Do everything with the defaults and have virtual box set up on your computer.
Then once you have downloaded virtual box and gone through the installation process again it's really
simple just executable file or GMG essentially just double click it and follow the instructions it tells
you to do with everything as a default.
You need to download Ubuntu once you've done that.
So you've downloaded virtual box you've run through the basic installation process and then you come
over here to Ubuntu dot com.
That's going to be the Linux version that we're going to be using.
And you go ahead and download Ubuntu.
So just come up here you'll see downloads click on that and there's a couple of ways to download it.
We're going to be using Ubuntu desktop.
There's a server cloud etc. but click here on a Bluetooth desktop and this is the one we're going to
download.
This version is sixteen point zero 4.2.
Really doesn't matter what version you use as long as it's relatively recent and you can just click
Kear on download and it's eventually going to download.
They'll ask you if you want to help shape the future of some donations totally up to you or just kind
of put everything to zero right now to walk through the process and then eventually I can just say downloadable
to desktop.
You'll click on it and it will download the ISO for you.
All right.
So this is what it should look like.
It's going to be an I O file and it's quite a large download it's about 1.4 gigabytes which kind of
makes sense it's an entire operating system.
So this will take some time.
I already downloaded in a boot flavor so I'm going to cancel this and then I'm going to hop over to
virtual box.
So once you've downloaded installed a virtual box then you have U-Boot to this ISO file ISO extension
ready to go.
You're going to run virtual box either on your Mac or on your Windows computer.
So already a virtual box installed.
Then go ahead and grab it.
So I'll type virtual box and here I see virtual box.
I'll click on that and it should bring up a virtual box.
Once you open up virtual box manager it's going to look something like this you'll click on new and
then it's going to ask you the name and the operating system.
So we'll call this my Sparke or whatever you really want to call it doesn't matter.
And then the type we're going to say Linux and we'll say Ubuntu 64 bit.
Now if you're running a older computer you may have to choose 32 bit and when you're Ubuntu that you'll
have to look around and holiday 32 bit version.
So make sure you understand whether your computer's on 64 bit or 32 bit.
If it's a relatively newer computer it's probably a 64 bit so that's why we're going to be using it
will hit next and then you have to choose the memory size.
So this step kind of depends on your computer's amount of RAM but you'll want to give access to a reasonable
amount of RAM here for you to operate.
Bluetooth virtualization without any trouble and depending on your applications I would suggest choosing
somewhere between four to eight gigabytes.
If you only have 8 bytes total on your computer then just give virtual boxes access to about half of
four gigabytes which is 4000 megabytes So we'll kind of do what I would say is a good amount like 4
megabytes or half the RAM I believe.
So this is the max on my computer but I would suggest if you have eight gigabytes give it 4000 megabytes
so hit next.
And then there's the hard disk.
So you can choose create virtual hard disk and the default 8 gigabytes.
So will say create a virtual hard disk now and the default is it could get bytes.
Click create and it says hard disk file type.
You're going to choose VDI Virtual Box disk image click next and then it's going to say storage on physical
hard disk.
So we're going to choose a fixed size dynamically allocated can slow down your input output speed a
little bit so we're going to choose a fixed size and after we choose fix size say next and you want
to choose a decent amount of space.
I would suggest anywhere between 20 and 50 gigabytes depending on how often you think you're to be using
the virtual box.
But remember that you also have to account for the actual OS itself.
So we're going to just give it something like 20 gigabytes kind of a fair amount you can see I have
plenty of room here so this kind of has to be a personal call for you but make sure at least has enough
gigabytes to hold the entire operating system.
So I would say something like five or 10 minimum but I really suggest something like 20 to 50 gigabytes
just so you don't have any problems you'll hit create.
And this may take a little while the penny if you have a hard drive.
If you have a solid state drive will be a lot faster.
But I'm going to jump in time.
I have this phone to take me about two minutes so can forward in time until it's done.
All right.
Once that process is done it's going to revert back to this screen and you'll see your machine.
So you're going to right click on this and then go to settings.
Or just control S and then you're going to go to System and you're going to click on the processor tab
and the pending on your computer you can allow access to the maximum amount of C-p is in the green zone
so you can also see that if you got really plans on what you're going to do or how have you going to
push this.
But I usually just push it to the max on the green and then we also go to display and we want to assign
a little bit more video memory so it looks a little nicer when you give it up to about like halfway
of my max which is like 80 megabytes and then optionally you can enable the acceleration.
So I recommend you do that and then you're going to hit OK.
It's going to set up those settings and then you're going to double click on your virtual machine and
then that might take a little while to set up.
But eventually you will see this pop up that says Select started this and this is where you're going
to point to the Ubuntu that I O that you downloaded.
So we're going to click over here and I already have Ubuntu 16 points or 4.
So I click on that and then I'm going to click start.
And this is going to essentially install Ubuntu onto your virtual machine.
Now this may take a while depending on how you install it or if it's going to run off of this but we're
going to keep running this and we're going to basically go through into installation process so you
can see here it's starting up.
Ubuntu based off the iso file and then eventually you're going to see something that looks like this.
You'll see these little pop up saying it's grabbing your keyboard and mouse action.
You can go ahead and close those.
And I'm going to expand this just a little bit so we can see more of the screen here and it's going
to say either try Ubuntu or install it too.
So you actually want to install Ubuntu.
Again this is only installing it onto this virtual machine.
So will click here.
Install and then it's going to say download updates while installing Ubuntu.
We're going to do that.
So select that as far as third party software.
Don't worry about that.
We don't need to do it.
We're going to continue
and then you get this warning here says erase this and install Ubuntu so that actually is what you want
to select.
Don't worry it's like erasing the disk of your actual computer.
It's only going to clear the memory that we set aside when installing the virtual box virtual machine.
So that is already empty memory because you selected it.
So feel free to select erase disk and install it onto the or it's totally safe and you're going to click
Install now.
And it says right the changes to disk.
Go ahead and continue
then eventually it will take you to a time zone asking you where you are.
Just select what it said or select your own time zone hit continue and then select your keyboard layout.
I'm in English USA so I'll just continue with the default
and then it's going to ask who are you.
So go ahead and put your name computer's name is fine username that's fine and then we can choose a
password if you want.
I'll say test password and then let's confirm it test password and then I'm going to say log in automatically.
Obviously it's a weak password explicit test password but this is just on my home computers.
It doesn't really matter.
It continue.
And then what's going to do is go through the installation process.
So it's going to take a little bit of time.
So we're going to jump forward in the video until this is done.
Eventually you'll see installation complete and I'll ask you to restart the computer.
That's the virtual box computers.
Click on restart now and it will restart.
This virtual computer and if this takes too long sometimes there's an error in the virtual box will
allow itself to restart.
You can just close this window and then start over again just the right click and then restart it from
the actual virtual box environment.
So Tir says please remove the installation medium then press enter so you can go ahead and press enter
there then once you press enter eventually you'll see it auto log in for you.
Kind of see some command line things and the window will pop up again like this.
Now if for some reason it's staying on black Kristan on the command line for a really long time that
is something like more than 10 minutes.
You can always just come back to a virtual box right click and then reset it and then started up again
from here.
But right now we'll just go ahead and close this keyboard shortcut.
So click on your computer and that will go away.
All right.
Once you have this actual Ubuntu virtual box running and ready to go the next step is to actually download
install Python that Jupiter notebook as well as Sparc and we're going to continue with that.
In part two of this virtual box installation lecture series.
So I will see you in the very next lecture.
Are you going to continue to write for my Ubuntu desktop.
Thanks.
I'll see you there.